Ladies and gentlemen and friends of Tennessee, this is the first of monthly television programs
that I will endeavor to bring you during this session of the Congress of the United States.
I want to thank this station as for carrying these programs as a public service and thank
you for your interest in them.
We will endeavor to have with us distinguished leaders and government from time to time
and we will appreciate any suggestions that you might make as to the subject matters to
be covered in the various programs.
Approximately the end of January we will have another program on what happens in the first
part of this Congress and then at the end of each month thereafter.
And again I want to thank this station and its ownership and managers and all of you
for your help in making these programs successful.
Today is the beginning of this session of the Congress.
The House of Representatives are met on yesterday in elected John McCormick as Speaker of
the House, Carl Albert from Oklahoma as the majority leader.
Today we also had our caucus and on the Senate side which was very harmonious.
The program for the session was discussed and I think we will have a very good democratic
unity and working together on the Senate side.
It's a great honor today to have one of the leaders of the House of Representatives with
us on this program who is well known to people in Tennessee.
He has Congressman Hale Boggs from the State of Louisiana.
He has distinguished Congressman who is leadership in the House of Representatives has been
pronounced for many many years.
Before we're calling on Hale I want to say that he came to the House of Representatives
about two years after Senator Gore and I, he first came in 1941.
He served in the United States Navy as an officer to time out to be in the Navy and later
to almost get elected as Governor of the State of Louisiana.
Here's the new whip of the House of Representatives and it's good to see you have you with us
Congressman Hale Boggs.
I asked this it's a pleasure to be with you.
Our friendship goes back for many years and I might say to the people of Tennessee that
knowing you has been a great inspiration to me.
I've been to Tennessee many times.
First thing and campaigning.
I want to talk about some of those times.
Every time we ask you to come down for some democratic occasion you're always very willing
to do so.
I remember one time you came down to Nashville to our big Democratic meeting, Hale and
there an outstanding speech.
When you were a nice I remember particularly going to Knoxville in 1956 when we had around
up there when you were a candidate for Vice President of the United States.
I had at least students in Rivers on that area.
I got to see a lot of the country and enjoyed our travels around.
I went to successful but it was a great experience anyway.
Well, needless to say I just just applied for me to go to Tennessee.
My last trip there was with the Speaker Rayburn and Charlotte before he had to leave here.
You remember?
Yes.
The dedication in July of the bridge at the North City on the Tennessee River and we were
down the Speaker Rayburn and you were very wonderful to come.
That was his last trip to Tennessee and I think that he got more pleasure out of that
trip than anything that's happened to him in a long time because you remember Hale,
his relatives on both sides of the river all came to see him.
Well, I went fishing really and asked this in a little way and he reminisced about his
childhood in Tennessee.
So, what you and the governor and the other people in Tennessee did for him that day I think
was really magnificent.
And I believe you called a lot of fish too, did we?
Sure did.
I mean when you came back you forgot to wrap up my package.
Well, Hale, you just been elected as the whip of the House of Representatives.
Have you got a whip with you?
Not along.
Yeah, but.
Lastly, third in command, the Speaker of course of the House is Mr. McCormick, Massachusetts.
He was holding good friend of ours and Carl Albert is the majority leader in the U of
the West.
Next in rank as the whip.
What is the, what are the duties of the whip?
Of course, Percy Priest was the Joe Warren.
I mean, a wonderful congressman.
Percy Priest was whip for quite a long time.
Well, what do you do?
Well, the whip has a cellophonch, he's the assistant majority leader to begin with.
This means that he has responsibility with the leader for the program in the House.
In addition to that, he's the man that's relied upon to give the temper of the House.
We have assistant whips who check each member on the Democratic side to ascertain his feelings
and see whether they're going to vote right or not.
They vote right or wrong.
And this is quite helpful.
We know at least to some extent how we stand on legislation.
It's not an easy job.
It's a rough job.
I guess a lot of them are.
They'll like to say how they stand on legislation as you well know.
Yeah, and then you have to get all the members, Democratic members there to teach you that
and the House, as you recall, many of the most important votes have done to call it by
wherever they'll call it.
They've called it teller and standing votes.
And if our numbers are not there, we can lose without even knowing we're losing.
That's right.
Well, hey, during the last few days you've had several visits to the White House with
the leadership of the Democratic Party and with the bipartisan leadership to get briefings
on the state of the Union and the state of our defenses and on the legislative program.
Will you tell us about your visits with the President and his advisors?
Well, it's very difficult to talk about the legislative program without the comment
to just one committee in the Congress in this session.
Most of the legislation that we're confronted with involves taxes or variations of taxes
like tariffs, social security.
And all of these under the Constitution must originate in the House representatives,
specifically in the Committee on Ways and Means.
And on yesterday, the President added another one which also goes to the Ways and Means Committee
named with a problem of debt limitation.
So that all of the discussions have sent it to almost primarily upon the House Ways and
Means Committee and its program.
And upon the Senate Finance Committee, which is the Companion Committee and the Senate,
the legislative matters as you know are involved taxes and I don't give a necessarily
in priority.
Rather, comprehensive tax revision program, the President is widely interested in stimulating
more investment in American enterprises.
You know there's been some conversation about this administration being addressed to business.
And my opinion, nothing could be further from the truth.
The President recognizes the vital connection between the prosperity and the function of
the government.
As a matter of fact, as you know from your own studies, a difference of employment of
a million people means a difference in revenues of about three and a half billion dollars.
So that if employment drops off by a million, our revenues decrease by three and a half
billion dollars or if employment increases by a million, revenues increase by three and
a half billion dollars.
So one of the main concerns of the press and in his economic advisors has been this business
of unemployment.
Despite the fact that business, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of 1961,
was at boom proportions, we still were running a rate of unemployment of over five percent,
which is way too high.
This brings us to a consideration of the tax program.
Well now let's talk a little more about the tax program.
And there is a recommendation that certain loopholes be closed such as excessive expense
accounts and things of that sort with which were right.
Save the treasury a lot of money.
Right.
And then the President recognizes that businesses got to employ more people, right, produce
more and compete with more competitive markets such as the common market in Europe.
So that there is a program for an investment incentive, just what is that.
And I think it has merit, but you know more about it than I.
Well this program would permit business establishments, both large and small, to obtain a tax credit
of up to eight percent of the funds that they use to for expanding their plant equipment
or improving their own plan.
Now as you pointed out Senator, this is important for a variety of reasons.
Number one, to increase the jobs in the United States.
And number two, to put us in a competitive position with the common market countries,
which incidentally is probably the second item of consideration on the President's program.
Now the tax program of course is before the Ways and Means Committee, which you have
seen your members.
Yes.
And then the giving the President broader powers and the connection with tariffs to negotiate
so that we can make arrangements with the common market of Europe is the other matter
we were going to discuss.
Yes.
I want to say in connection with the common market of Europe that of course I was in Paris
this fall as you know as a member of the NATO parliamentarians conference and you were
there also.
And it has become a reality.
There are lowering tariff barriers, restrictions on trade, talking about their common currency.
Europe is important to us because we have a favorable trade balance there.
Also if we don't trade with them, we can't work together militarily and politically.
So I think from every viewpoint, our own personal opinion is we must work out and give the President
some leeway and negotiating with the common market.
That will be a very controversial issue before the Congress.
How do you feel about it?
How do you think it's going to go?
And what are the reasons for us getting into this?
Well that's just number one I should like to point out and I'm sure the people of Tennessee
know this.
That you probably have made the greatest contribution of any American towards a uniform
occasion of Europe which is now a reality.
I know that for many many years you wait towards this goal.
From my Atlantic Union friends, I have a little pre-safety.
Now to my way of thinking this is really one of the significant events of this century
for a great variety of reasons.
Number one, it presents the greatest problem that the communists have faced.
They have operated on a theory as you know that the West was decadent that Europe would
decline first and finally we would be isolated and we too would fall.
Now with the vitality of Europe growing at a rate exceeding 8% of gross national products
and a product, it's an absolute enigma to them.
This requires all of the communist dogma so that politically this is the greatest thing
that's happened to us as a nation to the whole West, to the whole West, non-communist
world.
But on from the economic point of view this is a vital type of competition that we're
faced with, both in agricultural commodities and in manufactured articles so that if our
government doesn't have the authority to negotiate with the common market and operate more
less than the partnership arrangement, we could become great rivals.
And if that happened then the Soviets would have succeeded in driving a wedge between us
which would be a very dangerous thing for the West so that what the President is really
saying is that the common market is something very vital to us politically and militarily
and economically.
But we on the other hand must recognize the fact that it's also a challenge.
Therefore he starts to ask his members of Congress, give me the power to negotiate realistically
with these people.
I think when the American people understand this they will give the President that power.
Well that's a good sum up and hey, oh we could go on here and talk about many things
for a long long time but our time is up and I hope we can have you back with us.
I want to thank you very much for appearing on these stations today and I wish you the
very best luck as the new rep of the Democrats in the House of Representatives.
Thank you, Senator.
That's all for now.
Thank you.